# Documentation for contributions by Sreenath S (20BCE1450)

# What Pyjamas Is?
A one step solution for developers to securely collect and store data using dynamic form creation and encryption using AES algorithm.

# Languages Used

- Python
- HTML
- CSS
- TypeScript
- Javascript

# Core Feature
- Ability to create separate databases for each form, with data stored in CSV files. Developers can choose to securely store specific fields in their forms by hashing them, with the option to select any one key as the primary key. We also have an integrated load balancer that will help developers protect their backends from DDoS attacks.

# Need for Pyjamas Library

- While collecting data for research, especially sensitive data, it is important to store it in a secure way, but to still have it in an accessible format so that security does not act as a hindrance to quick development.

# Module Requirements

- npm
- node

For stepwise installation guide article for the modules 
[Click  Here](https://radixweb.com/blog/installing-npm-and-nodejs-on-windows-and-mac)

To verify if npm and node are installed corretcly run the following commands in command prompt :

        node -v
        npm -v

This returns the version id if the modules are already present. 
# Endpoints

- `/`
    - Opens home page of pyjamas with a dynamic form creation module.

- `/submit`
    - Submit data in a POST request and generate a .json file with the fields entered in the form along with whether it is a primary key and if it needs to be encrypted.

- `/insert`
    - Page where data insertion can take place into the form which is dynamically generated.

- `/lookup`
    - Page to find data by entering the primary key.

# Load Balancer

Solution to handle large loads of network requests.

__Step to Run the _load balancer___

- Open terminal and run
    ```
    python app.py
    ```
    - Open the URL given by Flask in a browser. It is usually [`http://localhost:80`](http://localhost:80).    

- Open an additional terminal and type the following:
    
    To switch to load balancer directory
    ```
    cd load_balancer
    ```
    To run the load balancer type the following command: 

    ```
    npm watch
    ```
- Open url running on specified port.It is usually [`http://localhost:5000`](http://localhost:5000) and can be changed by the user if the port is not available.



