# Vishal N (20BCE1043) PBL-1

## Environment Setup

When building a new project, it's important to understand the needs of your users. For our project, we identified that our target users were Python and web developers who had a need to store customer data securely. We conducted research to understand the issues they faced with their existing tooling and identified that many developers were concerned about the security of their customer data.

We knew that we could solve this problem by building a platform that would allow them to store customer data in a secure manner. This required a deep understanding of security best practices and protocols, as well as an understanding of how to build and deploy a web application.

To get started, we first identified the programming languages and frameworks we would need to use. We chose Python as our primary programming language, as it is widely used by web developers and has excellent libraries for encryption and secure storage. We also decided to use Flask, a micro web framework in Python, to build our web application.

Once we had identified the programming languages and frameworks we would use, we set up our development environment. This involved installing and configuring all the necessary software and tools, such as Python, Flask, and the necessary encryption libraries. We also set up a version control system to keep track of changes to our code and facilitate collaboration between team members.

With our development environment set up, we were ready to start building our platform. We began by building the core functionality to store and retrieve customer data securely. This required deep knowledge of encryption protocols such as AES, Blowfish, and DES, as well as understanding of secure storage practices.
In conclusion, building a project requires identifying the needs of your users and choosing the right tools and frameworks to solve their problems. In our case, we built a secure data storage platform using Python, Flask, and encryption libraries. Setting up the development environment was a crucial first step, which allowed us to build the core functionality and deliver a secure solution to our users.

## Setting up the Environment to Run the Module

Setting up the right development environment is essential for efficient and productive software development. Here are the steps for setting up an environment for Pyjamas:

1. Install Python: Python is the core language for most development work in Pyjamas, and you should have the latest stable version of Python installed on your machine. You can download the latest version of Python from the official Python website and follow the installation instructions.

2. Install an Integrated Development Environment (IDE): An IDE helps to improve productivity and makes it easier to write, debug, and maintain code. There are many IDEs available for Python, including PyCharm, Visual Studio Code, Spyder, and Jupyter Notebook. We recommend Visual Studio Code.

3. Clone the GitHub repo - https://github.com/vishalnandagopal/pyjamas

4. In the pyjamas_forms folder, open a terminal. Run “python app.py”

5. Open the URL given by Flask in a browser. It is usually http://localhost:80.

6. For the load balancer, open a terminal and cd into the load_balancer folder. Install all the node modules. You will need NPM and NodeJS for that. You can download both of them from here. Once installed, verify your installation using node --version and npm --version.

    ```
    cd load_balancer
    npm install
    npm watch
    ```

7. You can mention the ports and the number of instances (integer) it has to protect in the package.json file (line 7). For example, if you mention pnpm nodemon load_balancer.ts 1880 3 round-robin, it will distribute and forward requests to 3 ports, starting from 1880 (1880, 1881, 1882).

## Using the Module

-   After running the Flask app, open the url in your browser. Create a form by filling in the required fields, as you desire.
-   As a developer, you can call the module and perform many functions by issuing API requests at various endpoints.
